.TH SP-EDGE 7 "December 2025" "Spherepop Project" "Miscellaneous Information Manuals"
.SH NAME
sp-edge \- cooperative edge execution tools for declared local networks
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sp-edge
toolset provides a small collection of cooperative shell utilities for
coordinating execution across a user-declared set of machines via standard
SSH.

The tools are designed for exploratory, experimental, and educational use
within environments fully owned or explicitly controlled by the user.
They do not perform discovery, scanning, inference, or autonomous coordination.

All participating nodes must be declared manually by the user prior to use.
.SH EPISTEMIC STATUS
The
.B sp-edge
tools do not observe, measure, diagnose, or infer properties of networks,
systems, or machines.

They execute user-specified commands on user-declared nodes using standard SSH
mechanisms. Any interpretation of output as evidence of system state, health,
performance, or correctness is a category error.

These tools are coordination aids, not analytical instruments.
.SH DESIGN PRINCIPLES
.IP \(bu 4
Explicit opt-in: all nodes are declared manually
.IP \(bu 4
No discovery, scanning, or inference
.IP \(bu 4
Local scope only (user-owned or consented machines)
.IP \(bu 4
Human-readable configuration
.IP \(bu 4
Reversible and non-persistent operation
.IP \(bu 4
Epistemic transparency over automation
.SH TOOL OVERVIEW
The
.B sp-edge
suite consists of small, composable utilities:

.TP
.B sp-edge-init (1)
Initialize a local edge configuration directory and example node list.
.TP
.B sp-edge-list (1)
List declared nodes from the local configuration.
.TP
.B sp-edge-run (1)
Execute a command across declared nodes via SSH.
.TP
.B sp-edge-watch (1)
Periodically execute a command across declared nodes.
.TP
.B sp-edge-lab (1)
Launch an interactive, read-only coordination shell.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Nodes are declared in a local configuration file, typically:

.nf
edge-nodes.json
.fi

Each entry specifies:
.IP \(bu 4
A human-readable node name
.IP \(bu 4
An SSH host specification
.IP \(bu 4
Optional user and port fields

No automatic modification or augmentation of this file occurs.
.SH NON-GOALS
The
.B sp-edge
tools explicitly do not:
.IP \(bu 4
Discover or enumerate networks or hosts
.IP \(bu 4
Escalate privileges
.IP \(bu 4
Persist state on remote machines
.IP \(bu 4
Optimize execution strategies
.IP \(bu 4
Provide fault tolerance or recovery guarantees
.IP \(bu 4
Perform monitoring, diagnostics, or telemetry
.SH SECURITY POSTURE
All operations are performed using standard SSH in non-interactive,
non-escalating modes (e.g., BatchMode).

Key handling, authentication, and authorization are entirely delegated to the
user’s SSH configuration.

The tools do not attempt to bypass, probe, or modify security boundaries.
.SH MODE INTERACTION
The
.B sp-edge
tools participate in the
.B sp-mode (7)
system.

By default, they operate in
.B instrument
mode, limited to direct execution of explicitly requested commands.

They MUST refuse to execute if invoked without an explicit mode declaration
when required by project policy.
.SH RATIONALE
Distributed experimentation often requires simple coordination across multiple
machines without the overhead or semantic commitments of cluster managers,
orchestration frameworks, or monitoring systems.

The
.B sp-edge
suite provides a deliberately minimal alternative that preserves human judgment
and avoids accidental authority projection.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a command on all declared nodes:
.nf
sp-edge-run --mode instrument -- echo "hello"
.fi

List declared nodes:
.nf
sp-edge-list
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sp-edge-run (1),
.BR sp-edge-watch (1),
.BR sp-edge-lab (1),
.BR sp-mode (7),
.BR sp-tools (7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 Spherepop Project.

Licensed under a permissive open-source license.

