.TH SP-GUARD-FREEZE 1 "December 2025" "Spherepop Project" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
sp-guard-freeze \- create or update checksum freeze for epistemic.guard

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sp-guard-freeze

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sp-guard-freeze
utility computes a SHA-256 checksum of the file
.I epistemic.guard
and writes it to
.I epistemic.guard.sha256
in canonical format.

The command performs a write operation only.
It does not compare existing values.
It does not validate meaning.
It does not enforce policy.

Any existing checksum file is overwritten.

.SH OUTPUT
On success, the command emits exactly two lines:

.IP 1. 4
.B FROZEN
.IP 2. 4
A
.B DETAIL
line indicating the destination file.

No additional output is produced.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The checksum file was written successfully.
.TP
.B 2
A structural error occurred (missing guard file, missing tool, or write failure).

No other exit codes are used.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I epistemic.guard
Plain text guard file to be frozen.
.TP
.I epistemic.guard.sha256
Checksum file written by this tool.

.SH EPISTEMIC STATUS
This tool performs no epistemic evaluation.

It does not assert correctness, adequacy, or compliance.
It records a checksum only.

Interpretation of the frozen state is external.

.SH RATIONALE
Separating freeze creation from status inspection ensures that:

.IP \(bu 4
changes are explicit
.IP \(bu 4
drift is detectable
.IP \(bu 4
policy remains external to tooling

This utility exists solely to make state changes auditable.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sp-guard-status (1),
.BR sp-lint-epistemic (1),
.BR sp-tools (7)

