.TH SP-HOLLYWOOD 1 "December 2025" "Spherepop Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sp-hollywood \- cinematic console panes for Spherepop/RVSP demos
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sp-hollywood
[\-\-conference-demo] [\-\-reviewer-mode] [\-\-boss] [\-\-screensaver]
[\-s N] [\-d N] [\-\-logfile PATH]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sp-hollywood creates a tmux/byobu window filled with rotating panes that
simulate “research activity” around Spherepop OS and RSVP theory.
It is intentionally non-operational: it stages semantic overload,
metric instability, and legibility theater without exposing actionable procedures.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B \-\-conference-demo
Fast rotation, high pane density, theatrical alerts.
.TP
.B \-\-reviewer-mode
Slower rotation, fewer panes, legible “notes” and citations.
.TP
.B \-\-boss
Instantly switches to a harmless screen (top, logs, man pages).
.TP
.B \-\-screensaver
Drift for projectors; reduces interactivity and hides status.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-splits " " N
Maximum number of panes to spawn.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delay " " N
Seconds between pane refresh cycles.
.TP
.BR \-\-logfile " " PATH
Write fake logs to PATH (default: /tmp/spherepop.log).
.SH RUNTIME KEYS
.TP
.B Ctrl-B + B
Boss key (safe screen).
.TP
.B Ctrl-B + R
Toggle reviewer mode.
.TP
.B Ctrl-B + D
Toggle conference demo mode.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I lib/spherepop/widgets/
Widget scripts executed inside panes.
.TP
.I /tmp/spherepop.log
Default fake log file.
.SH NOTES
This tool is intended for demos and epistemic theater. It should not be
used to imply real security testing or operational penetration workflows.
.SH AUTHOR
Flyxion (workspace scripts) and contributors.
.SH SEE ALSO
tmux(1), byobu(1), top(1), man(1)

