.TH SP-LINT-EPISTEMIC 1 "December 2025" "Spherepop Project" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sp-lint-epistemic \- enforce epistemic disclosure requirements for sp-* tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sp-lint-epistemic
.RI [ path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sp-lint-epistemic
utility performs a static lint pass over executable files in a Spherepop
workspace and enforces the presence of mandatory epistemic safeguards.

Specifically, it verifies that all executable files whose names begin with
.BR sp-*
explicitly source the shared epistemic guard file
.RI ( sp-edge-common.sh ).
If any executable omits this requirement, the lint pass fails.

This tool is intended to be used as a build-time or continuous integration
gate. A failed lint run MUST be treated as a hard error.
.SH EPISTEMIC STATUS
.B sp-lint-epistemic
does not analyze semantics, correctness, or safety of tool behavior.
It enforces disclosure and structural honesty only.

Passing this lint does not imply correctness, validity, or rigor.
Failing this lint indicates a violation of epistemic transparency guarantees.
.SH RATIONALE
Spherepop tools are explicitly designed to explore interpretive and epistemic
failure modes. Without mandatory disclosure, such tools risk being mistaken
for diagnostic or analytical instruments.

This lint tool prevents accidental authority projection by enforcing that
every executable explicitly opts into epistemic self-disclosure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I path
Root directory to scan. Defaults to the current directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All applicable executables passed epistemic checks.
.TP
.B 1
One or more executables failed to include required safeguards.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I sp-edge-common.sh
Shared epistemic banner and guard file required by all executables.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sp-tools (7),
.BR sp-mode (7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 Spherepop Project.
Licensed under a permissive open-source license.

