.TH SP-MODE 7 "December 2025" "Spherepop Project" "Miscellaneous Information Manuals"
.SH NAME
sp-mode \- epistemic mode separation for Spherepop tools
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sp-mode
mechanism defines an explicit, enforceable separation between two mutually
exclusive execution modes for Spherepop tools:

.TP
.B satire
A non-instrumental mode in which outputs are not causally grounded and do not
correspond to real measurements, analysis, or system state.
.TP
.B instrument
A mode in which outputs are required to be causally bound to explicit,
documented computations.

Tools MUST select exactly one mode at runtime.
Silent or ambiguous execution is forbidden.
.SH EPISTEMIC STATUS
The mode system exists to prevent category errors.

A tool running in
.B satire
mode MUST NOT emit outputs that resemble diagnostic signals.

A tool running in
.B instrument
mode MUST ensure that all outputs are causally derived and auditable.

Mode selection does not imply correctness or safety; it constrains interpretive
expectations only.
.SH DESIGN PRINCIPLES
.IP \(bu 4
Explicitness over inference
.IP \(bu 4
Structural enforcement over convention
.IP \(bu 4
Failure over ambiguity
.IP \(bu 4
Epistemic honesty under optimization pressure
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
Mode parsing is performed via a shared shell library
.RI ( sp-mode.sh ).
Tools are required to:
.IP \(bu 4
Parse the
.B --mode
flag
.IP \(bu 4
Refuse execution if the mode is invalid or unset
.IP \(bu 4
Guard mode-specific functionality with explicit checks
.SH GUARANTEES
If implemented correctly:
.IP \(bu 4
Satire-only behavior cannot leak into instrument mode
.IP \(bu 4
Instrument-only claims cannot appear in satire mode
.IP \(bu 4
Future contributors cannot blur the boundary accidentally
.SH NON-GOALS
The mode system does not:
.IP \(bu 4
Validate correctness of instrumentation
.IP \(bu 4
Prevent misuse of outputs
.IP \(bu 4
Provide ethical or safety guarantees
.SH RATIONALE
Ambiguous tools invite misinterpretation, particularly when aesthetic or
thematic cues resemble analytical systems.

Explicit mode separation ensures that epistemic posture is a first-class,
enforced property rather than an implied convention.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sp-lint-epistemic (1),
.BR sp-tools (7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 Spherepop Project.
Licensed under a permissive open-source license.

